---
layout: post
current: post
navigation: True
class: post-template
author: kd
title: Nokia 7.1 smartphone with ‘PureDisplay’ Tech Spec launched.
cover: /assets/img/blog/nk7.jpg

---

Finnish smartphone maker HMD Global is expanding its smartphone portfolio with yet another smartphone.

* The Nokia 7.1. The handset was launched at an event in London. Unlike what recent rumours and leaks have pointed out, the smartphone maker launched just one device and not the widely rumoured ‘Plus’ variant. It comes as an improvement over the Nokia 7 Plus, which came out earlier this year.
Nokia 7.1 smartphone with ‘PureDisplay’ tech launched
* Finnish smartphone maker HMD Global is expanding its smartphone portfolio with yet another smartphone, the Nokia 7.1. The handset was launched at an event in London. Unlike what recent rumours and leaks have pointed out, the smartphone maker launched just one device and not the widely rumoured ‘Plus’ variant. It comes as an improvement over the Nokia 7 Plus, which came out earlier this year.
## Nokia 7.1 price and availability
* HMD has launched the Nokia 7.1 Plus smartphone in select countries for now including the UK region. The smartphone comes in two variants based on 3GB RAM+32GB storage and 4GB RAM+64GB storage capacities. The models are priced between EUR 299 and EUR 349, which roughly translates to Rs 25,500-Rs 30,000. The firm has not yet revealed if and when the device will be hitting the Indian shores. Nokia 7.1 will be made available in the UK from this month itself. Available in Gloss Midnight Blue and Glass Steel colours, the smartphone comes in single and dual-SIM versions (nano+nano SIM) as well.
## Nokia 7.1 specifications
* Nokia 7.1, like the rest of the 2018 line up, falls in the Android One initiative by Google. It runs Android 8.0 Oreo out of the box but will also be receiving Android 9.0 Pie in future.
* HMD has stressed on the 'PureDisplay' tech which is a first in a Nokia handset. It is claimed to improve the viewing experience with better contrast ratio (1,000,000:1), more clarity and showing ‘enhanced’ colours. The smartphone also supports HDR10 content. The firm adds that the smartphone upscales the non-HDR content in real time using a 16bit engine on the 5.84-inch FHD+ (2280x1080 pixels) screen with 19:9 aspect ratio and a notch at the top. The 2.5D screen is protected by Gorilla Glass 3.
* Powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 636 processor, the Nokia 7.1 arrives in 3GB RAM+32GB storage and 4GB RAM+64GB storage variants. It also has a hybrid microSD card support up to 400GB.
For imaging duties, the smartphone boasts of dual rear cameras consisting of a 12MP autofocus sensor with 1.2um pixel size and f/1.8 aperture along with a 5MP monochrome sensor with f/2.4 aperture and 1.12um pixel size. Both are powered by ZEISS Optics. At the front, there is an AI-based 8MP sensor with f2.0 aperture and 84-degree field of view.
* Backed by a 3060mAh battery, the Nokia 7.1 supports native fast charging technology that is claimed to charge 50% of the device in 30 minutes of charging. As for the connectivity, it includes USB Type-C port, OTG support, 3.5mm headphone jack, Bluetooth v5.0, Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac, GPS and NFC.
## Nokia True Wireless Earbuds and Nokia Pro Wireless Earphones
* In addition to the Nokia 7.1 smartphone, HMD also introduced two new wireless audio accessories - Nokia True Wireless Earbuds and Nokia Pro Wireless Earphones.
* The True Wireless Earbuds weigh 5 grams each and support voice calls as well. It is claimed to deliver up to 3.5 hours of play time and a pocketable charging case said to hold up to three full charges.
* The Pro Wireless Earphones is a neckband that is designed to deliver up to 10 hours of playback on a single charge. It also has an inbuilt vibration function to alert users of incoming calls. It is possible to separate the smart magnetic earbuds from each other to answer calls or play music.
